First draft of 'preparing to teach' episode. (#53)
carpentries/lesson-development-training: episodes/18-preparing.md

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: questions

- What can I do to prepare to teach my lesson for the first time?
- How should I communicate lesson setup instructions to learners?
- What information should be recorded for instructors teaching a lesson?
- How should information be collected as part of the feedback process?

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Teaching Plan

A teaching plan outlines the structure of your teaching session, including details, estimated duration and materials needed to deliver it. For example, a teaching plan may contain the following:

- welcome, introductions and motivation for the lesson - to introduce yourself, aims and objectives of the lesson and how it will help learners
- setup - to check if everyone is ready to proceed with the lesson
- segments of teaching and exercises from the lesson and any other planned activities (e.g. group discussions, wrap-up and feedback)
- slides, figures and other visual aids needed to deliver teaching and other parts of the teaching plan 
- resources/references/recommended reading

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  testimonial

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Perspective on Preparing a Teaching Plan
```

exercises: 30
---

By now you should have developed objectives, exercises/formative assessments,
and examples for at least one of the sections in your lesson. In order to prepare to teach it (for the first time in particular) you'll need to create a teaching plan and design a method to collect feedback on your lesson.

> 

Author: Fixed this so that there is no text above the objectives/questions - via 2f3c335.

> 

Reviewer 2: For @zkamvar, here is my local preview.  Let me know if you want more info on versions of anything.  The R function to print out my environment is escaping me at the moment.
<img width="1178" alt="Screen Shot 2022-06-01 at 4 47 38 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5558419/171634090-fbb8989b-92de-4063-8e70-bf1f3cd3ac75.png">

\- Dr. Allegra Via, Carpentries Instructor and Instructor Trainer

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  challenge

## Exercise: Prepare a teaching plan (15 minutes)

Create a bullet point list or brief notes describing
what you will say and do when teaching the section you have been focussing on
during this training.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

> Figures and other visual aids are great tools to help participants understand the content being presented and make associations between pieces of information. If you are planning on using these in your lesson or teaching session - remember to enhance them with the ALT text (invisible description of images which are read aloud to blind users on screen readers providing alternative text-based format for images) or place explanatory text adjacent to relevant part of visualisation.

Reviewer 2: The sentence with the description of alt text in it is a bit long.  I suggest removing that description and make sure it is well covered in the explanation episode with a shorter reminder here.
```suggestion
Figures and other visual aids are great tools to help participants understand the content being presented and make associations between pieces of information. If you are planning on using these in your lesson or teaching session - remember to enhance them with the ALT text describing the figure for individuals using screen readers or by placing explanatory text adjacent to relevant part of visualisation.
```

Author: I have accepted your changes @sstevens2 just was not sure which one is "the explanation episode" where you suggested we covered this in detail. Do we need anything more at all? I like how it reads now.

Reviewer: This is good. The section Sarah referred to is in _How to write a lesson_. It includes a (currently optional) exercise looking at alt-text for data visualisations.

I like how it is written after this change, and I think this is ready to go.

> If your lesson requires participants to use any software or tools - it is worthwhile investing time now into creating clear setup and installation instructions for participants to follow and circulating them ahead of the workshop. This will give you more time at the pilot for teaching the lesson as troubleshooting installation problems on the spot is often time-consuming and stressfull. Each Carpentries lesson has a dedicated place for this purpose within The Carpentries Workbench located in the file `setup.md` in the lesson project root. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your lesson requires participants to use any software or tools - it is worthwhile investing time now into creating clear setup and installation instructions for participants to follow and circulating them ahead of the workshop. This will give you more time at the pilot for teaching the lesson as troubleshooting installation problems on the spot is often time-consuming and stressful. Each Carpentries lesson has a dedicated place for setup instructions within The Carpentries Workbench located in the file `setup.md` in the lesson project root.
You may also want to include directions to download any data needed in the setup.
```

Reviewer 2: Sorry several suggestions are all linked in this comment.  Wasn't sure how to separate them without more line breaks.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  challenge

## Exercise: Create Setup Instructions (10 minutes)

> Create `setup.md` file in your lesson project root with a list of software and tools needed by participants to follow your lesson and links on how to install them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the `setup.md` file in your lesson project root with a list of software and tools needed by participants to follow your lesson and links on how to install them.
```

Reviewer: I had forgotten that this exercise is here - I need to update the language used in the trial runs information page.

Reviewer: The file is already present at `learners/setup.md` so trainees will not need to create it in this exercise.

Author: Various fixed to the times and text of the two exercises on setup instructions and instructor notes - via 1729694.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Another standard piece of The Carpentries Workbench are *Instructor Notes* pages - intended to help other instructors deliver your lesson by providing useful tips for delivering or explainng "sticky" points in the lesson. Instructor Notes for your lesson are located in `instructors/instructor-notes.md` file off your lesson project root where you may consider adding the following information:

- rationale, strengths and/or weaknesses of the lesson design
- what has been tried before and what worked/did not work
- tips for teaching the lesson/particular sections
- challenges encountered
- troubleshooting common setup/installation/exercise issues 
- parts that seem to cause trouble or most confusion for learners (i.e. where to tread carefully, spend more time explaining)
    

> It may initially be difficult to create Instructor Notes until you have taught the lesson yourself for the first time - but after the first pilot you will have enough feedback to draft them.

Reviewer 2: I think I included instructor notes in another episode.  I really like what you wrote here but maybe we should compare and decide where the info should go?

Reviewer 2: Looks like it is in the episode 15 on explanations.  It is a callout there so maybe mentioning in both places is okay?

This section is more philosophical about what to include where the episode 15 callout is more logistics.

Reviewer: I am happy with this separation. Perhaps we can add a sentence to that callout in the explanation episode, mentioning that the content of instructor notes will be discussed in more detail later?

Author: Added a note in the callout in episode 15-explanation that the content of instructor notes will be covered later on - fixed via da791d7.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::  challenge

## Exercise: Create Instructor Notes (10 minutes)

> Create `instructors/instructor-notes.md` file in your lesson project root with a list of delivery instructions for future instructors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create the `instructors/instructor-notes.md` file in your lesson project root with a list of delivery instructions for future instructors.
```

Reviewer: The file is already present, so they do not need to create it. I think it is true that it might be difficult for participants to add much to this file yet, so 10 minutes might be too long for this exercise TBH.

Author: Yes, i agree @tobyhodges - last night as I was mulling things over in my head I thought 5 minutes would be enough at this point.

Author: Fixed via 1729694.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Feedback Collection Plan

There is a lot to collect feedback on when trialling a new lesson and this is arguably the most important part of your teaching plan. It can be hard to capture all this information yourself while you are teaching, hence you will need help from your team - make sure you assign the feedback collection roles ahead of your pilot. Additionally, from the very beginning (i.e. advertising stage) make it clear to the participants you are piloting a new lesson and that they will be actively helping you refine it as well as learning new things themselves. This can help focus their attention on the feedback you need to collect from them, which you should be doing:

> - constantly and throughout the workshop - refer to the ["Pilot Workshops" section](17-operations.md#pilot-workshops) for suggestions on things to track and the [pilot workshop notes template](pilot-notes-template) and other suggested feedback collection mechanisms to help you gather such information. To recap, you should be noting down the amount of time used to teach each section, amount of time used for each exercise, technical issues encountered during the lesson, bugs and unexpected behaviour, missing solutions, questions and suggestions from participants, sources of confusion, interesting discussions, etc. These may occur at any point at the workshop, either verbally or in the chat function of the video conferencing tool (for online workshops) - make sure you capture them all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- __constantly and throughout the workshop__ - refer to the ["Pilot Workshops" section](17-operations.md#pilot-workshops) for suggestions on things to track and the [pilot workshop notes template][pilot-notes-template] and other suggested feedback collection mechanisms to help you gather such information. To recap, you should be noting down the amount of time used to teach each section, amount of time used for each exercise, technical issues encountered during the lesson, bugs and unexpected behaviour, missing solutions, questions and suggestions from participants, sources of confusion, interesting discussions, etc. These may occur at any point at the workshop, either verbally or in the chat function of the video conferencing tool (for online workshops) - plan to have someone try to capture as much as possible.
```
Think the bold might help make the first part stand out.
Also suggested less strong language at the end as it made me a bit stressed in its original form.

> - at designated wrap-up and feedback session at the end of the workshop. Here, you can cover any other feedback that was not addressed up to that point and any specific questions you may want to ask your audience (e.g. about the choice of topics for the lesson, difficulty level, workshop operations). You may design a special form that participants can fill in anonymously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- __at designated wrap-up and feedback session at the end of the workshop.__ Here, you can cover any other feedback that was not addressed up to that point and any specific questions you may want to ask your audience (e.g. about the choice of topics for the lesson, difficulty level, workshop operations). You may design a special form that participants can fill in anonymously.
```
